Feat: Custom plugins reference (#1250)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/custom-plugins/handler.lua.md

---
title: handler.lua
content_type: reference
layout: reference

breadcrumbs:
  - /custom-plugins/
  - /custom-plugins/reference/

products:
    - gateway

works_on:
    - konnect
    - on-prem

description: Learn how to implement custom plugin logic using handler.lua.

tags:
  - custom-plugins

min_version:
  gateway: '3.4'

related_resources:
  - text: Custom plugins
    url: /custom-plugins/
  - text: Custom plugins reference
    url: /custom-plugins/reference/
  - text: schema.lua reference
    url: /custom-plugins/schema.lua/
---

A {{site.base_gateway}} plugin allows you to inject custom logic in Lua at several
entry-points in the life-cycle of a request/response or a TCP stream
connection as it is proxied by {{site.base_gateway}}. To do so, the file
`kong.plugins.{plugin_name}.handler` must return a table with one or
more functions with predetermined names. Those functions will be
invoked by {{site.base_gateway}} at different phases when it processes traffic.

> The first parameter they take is always `self`. All functions except `init_worker`
> and `configure` can receive a second parameter which is a table with the plugin
> configuration. The `configure` receives an array of all configurations for the
> specific plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All functions take `self` as the first parameter. Except for `init_worker` and `configure`, they can also accept a second parameter: a table with the plugin’s configuration. `configure` instead receives an array of all configurations for the plugin.
```

## Available contexts

{% include plugins/plugin-contexts.md %}

## handler.lua specification

{{site.base_gateway}} processes requests in phases. A plugin is a piece of code that gets
activated by {{site.base_gateway}} as each phase is executed while the request gets proxied.

Phases are limited in what they can do. For example, the `init_worker` phase
doesn't have access to the `config` parameter because that information isn't

> available when {{site.base_gateway}} is initializing each worker. On the other hand the `configure`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available when {{site.base_gateway}} is initializing each worker. On the other hand the `configure` function
```

  kong.log("access")
end
```

The plugin's logic doesn't need to be all defined inside the `handler.lua` file.
It can be split into several Lua files, also called modules.
The `handler.lua` module can use `require` to include other modules in the plugin.

For example, the following plugin splits the functionality into three files.
`access.lua` and `body_filter.lua` return functions. They are in the same
folder as `handler.lua`, which requires and uses them to build the plugin:

```lua
-- handler.lua
local access = require "kong.plugins.my-custom-plugin.access"
local body_filter = require "kong.plugins.my-custom-plugin.body_filter"

local CustomHandler = {
  VERSION  = "1.0.0",
  PRIORITY = 10
}

CustomHandler.access = access
CustomHandler.body_filter = body_filter

return CustomHandler
```

```lua
-- access.lua
return function(self, config)
  kong.log("access phase")
end
```

```lua
-- body_filter.lua
return function(self, config)
  kong.log("body_filter phase")
end
```

See [the source code of the Key-Auth Plugin](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/master/kong/plugins/key-auth/handler.lua)
for an example of a real-life handler code.

> ### Migrating from BasePlugin module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Migrating from the BasePlugin module
```

local BasePlugin = require "kong.plugins.base_plugin"
local CustomHandler = BasePlugin:extend()
CustomHandler.VERSION  = "1.0.0"
CustomHandler.PRIORITY = 10
```

With the current equivalent:
```lua
local CustomHandler = {
  VERSION  = "1.0.0",
  PRIORITY = 10,
}
```

You don't need to add a `:new()` method or call any of the `CustomHandler.super.XXX:(self)`
methods.

## WebSocket Plugin Development

### Handler Functions

Requests to services with the `ws` or `wss` protocol take a different path through
the proxy than regular HTTP requests. Therefore, there are some differences in behavior
that must be accounted for when developing plugins for them.

The following handlers are not executed for WebSocket services:
 - `access`
 - `response`
 - `header_filter`
 - `body_filter`
 - `log`

The following handlers are unique to WebSocket services:
  - `ws_handshake`
  - `ws_client_frame`
  - `ws_upstream_frame`
  - `ws_close`

The following handlers are executed for both WebSocket and non-Websocket services:
  - `init_worker`
  - `configure`
  - `certificate` (TLS/SSL requests only)
  - `rewrite`

Even with these differences, it's possible to develop plugins that support both WebSocket

> and non-WebSocket services. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and non-WebSocket services. 
For example:
```
